---
draft: true
title: '2020'
oneliner: After all, we only live once.
date: '2020-12-12T22:34:57Z'
---

Now that we're proceeding through the end of an interesting year, I thought it might be useful to share some experiences. When we put the disastrous consequences aside, I'm grateful to 2020 since it brought us an inevitable solitude. If we know what we are doing, silence and solitude are golden. However, self-sovereignty is a heavy responsibility to deal with from day zero. I'm pretty sure even the best productivity gurus had troubles when they left unwillingly isolated.

I can summarize this year with three words: anxiety, boredom, and uncertainty. Depending on our capacity and mode, that trio could be the best and worst that can happen during isolation. Based on what I went through, I think that there's no middle ground. This path can lead to the lands of misery or something slightly better than that. The key is to accept and deal with the discomfort instead of running away from it. As Mark Manson says, "pain is the universal constant." It's always there. We can choose to suffer from it by avoiding and pursuing happiness. Or we can choose to grow by using it by facing, experiencing, and getting anti-fragile.

At the beginning of this year, I started to work at a distributed team. It's a teach-heavy at the heart of our 300-developer app ecosystem. It was indeed a challenge to find myself a place to exist and contribute in the meantime. The distance and workload made it hard to adapt. The technical inadequacy I felt as a rookie within the all-stars brought me an immense disappointment. By the time we entered the first lockdown, I had made a mistake to fulfill my lack of self-satisfaction by playing online games. Not surprisingly, that decision led me into a rabbit hole and established an embarrassing daily routine. I woke up at 8:45 (15 minutes before our daily team-meeting), took a shower, worked till 18:00, then played games till I fell asleep (usually around 3 AM). My perception of time debilitated within games, snacks, and sleepless nights. Since I moved to Berlin (November 2018), I've been keeping a journal, and I even broke that habit. There was nothing to write. Every day started to feel the same, for almost three months. I don't even mention the eating, reading, and the social aspects of it.

As the quarantine and the weather improved (I was stuck at Gold 5 after 300 games of League of Legends), something finally happened. I took a short vacation and did a cruel retrospective. I was impressed by the effectiveness of self-destruction I built up in such a short time.

Then I tried the other extreme.

I regained my self-organization by investing in Notion and reading books like [Digital Minimalism]() and [Make Life]().

I tried to remind myself the short-term satisfactions are synthetic and what I value in the long run is more important.

I built this website to support the idea of learning in public and eliminated much digital clutter.

I was able to cleanse by going all-in on habit tracking apps and living in a calendar. They undoubtedly helped me to get back on track. But please don't do it to yourself, unless you are as desperate as me.

Still, there's an infinitely scrolling list of discomforts in my head by the time I'm writing this. I'm glad they exist; therefore, there's a lot to do.

Alright, that's enough about me.

Here's a list of some cool things that might be useful for you.

#### Enlightening ideas

- We have two-brains. -- Mark Manson
- The golden trio: journal, meditation, and therapy.

#### Books read in awe

- Everything is fucked
- The new corporation
- Laws of UX

#### Series binge-watched

- Dave
- Succession

#### Albums on repeat

-
-

#### Podcasts

- Tech won't save us

#### Miscellaneous discoveries

- Dense discovery and Offscreen Magazine
- Nesslabs

And now, it's your turn. \
Tell us what did 2020 do to you.
